---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "Resource docker_network - terraform-provider-docker"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  docker_network provides a docker network resource.
---
<!-- Bug: Type and Name are switched -->
# Resource (docker_network)

`docker_network` provides a docker network resource.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "docker_network" "private_network" {
  name = "my_network"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name of the Docker network.

### Optional

- `attachable` (Boolean) Enable manual container attachment to the network.
- `check_duplicate` (Boolean) Requests daemon to check for networks with same name.
- `driver` (String) The driver of the Docker network. Possible values are `bridge`, `host`, `overlay`, `macvlan`. See [network docs](https://docs.docker.com/network/#network-drivers) for more details.
- `ingress` (Boolean) Create swarm routing-mesh network. Defaults to `false`.
- `internal` (Boolean) Whether the network is internal.
- `ipam_config` (Block Set) The IPAM configuration options (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--ipam_config))
- `ipam_driver` (String) Driver used by the custom IP scheme of the network. Defaults to `default`
- `ipam_options` (Map of String) Provide explicit options to the IPAM driver. Valid options vary with `ipam_driver` and refer to that driver's documentation for more details.
- `ipv6` (Boolean) Enable IPv6 networking. Defaults to `false`.
- `labels` (Block Set) User-defined key/value metadata (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--labels))
- `options` (Map of String) Only available with bridge networks. See [bridge options docs](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/network_create/#bridge-driver-options) for more details.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `scope` (String) Scope of the network. One of `swarm`, `global`, or `local`.

<a id="nestedblock--ipam_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ipam_config`

Optional:

- `aux_address` (Map of String) Auxiliary IPv4 or IPv6 addresses used by Network driver
- `gateway` (String) The IP address of the gateway
- `ip_range` (String) The ip range in CIDR form
- `subnet` (String) The subnet in CIDR form


<a id="nestedblock--labels"></a>
### Nested Schema for `labels`

Required:

- `label` (String) Name of the label
- `value` (String) Value of the label

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax by providing the `id`:

```shell
#!/bin/bash
terraform import docker_network.foo id
```

### Example

Assuming you created a `network` as follows

```shell
#!/bin/bash
docker network create foo
# prints the long ID
87b57a9b91ecab2db2a6dbf38df74c67d7c7108cbe479d6576574ec2cd8c2d73
```

you provide the definition for the resource as follows

```terraform
resource "docker_network" "foo" {
  name = "foo"
}
```

then the import command is as follows

```shell
#!/bin/bash
terraform import docker_network.foo 87b57a9b91ecab2db2a6dbf38df74c67d7c7108cbe479d6576574ec2cd8c2d73
```