---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "Resource docker_registry_image - terraform-provider-docker"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages the lifecycle of docker image in a registry. You can upload images to a registry (= docker push) and also delete them again
---
<!-- Bug: Type and Name are switched -->
# Resource (docker_registry_image)

Manages the lifecycle of docker image in a registry. You can upload images to a registry (= `docker push`) and also delete them again

## Example Usage

Build an image with the `docker_image` resource and then push it to a registry:

```terraform
resource "docker_registry_image" "helloworld" {
  name          = docker_image.image.name
  keep_remotely = true
}

resource "docker_image" "image" {
  name = "registry.com/somename:1.0"
  build {
    context = "${path.cwd}/absolutePathToContextFolder"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name of the Docker image.

### Optional

- `auth_config` (Block List, Max: 1) Authentication configuration for the Docker registry. It is only used for this resource. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--auth_config))
- `build` (Block Set, Max: 1) Configuration to build an image. Requires the `Use containerd for pulling and storing images` option to be disabled in the Docker Host(https://github.com/kreuzwerker/terraform-provider-docker/issues/534). Please see [docker build command reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/build/#options) too. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--build))
- `insecure_skip_verify` (Boolean) If `true`, the verification of TLS certificates of the server/registry is disabled. Defaults to `false`
- `keep_remotely` (Boolean) If true, then the Docker image won't be deleted on destroy operation. If this is false, it will delete the image from the docker registry on destroy operation. Defaults to `false`
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `triggers` (Map of String) A map of arbitrary strings that, when changed, will force the `docker_registry_image` resource to be replaced. This can be used to repush a local image

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `sha256_digest` (String) The sha256 digest of the image.

<a id="nestedblock--auth_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `auth_config`

Required:

- `address` (String) The address of the Docker registry.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password for the Docker registry.
- `username` (String) The username for the Docker registry.


<a id="nestedblock--build"></a>
### Nested Schema for `build`

Required:

- `context` (String) Value to specify the build context. Currently, only a `PATH` context is supported. You can use the helper function '${path.cwd}/context-dir'. This always refers to the local working directory, even when building images on remote hosts. Please see https://docs.docker.com/build/building/context/ for more information about build contexts.

Optional:

- `additional_contexts` (List of String) A list of additional build contexts. Only supported when using a buildx builder. Example: `["name=path", "src = https://example.org"}`. Please see https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/buildx/build/#build-context for more information.
- `auth_config` (Block List) The configuration for the authentication (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--build--auth_config))
- `build_args` (Map of String) Pairs for build-time variables in the form of `ENDPOINT : "https://example.com"`
- `build_id` (String) BuildID is an optional identifier that can be passed together with the build request. The same identifier can be used to gracefully cancel the build with the cancel request.
- `build_log_file` (String) Path to a file where the buildx log are written to. Only available when `builder` is set. If not set, no logs are available. The path is taken as is, so make sure to use a path that is available.
- `builder` (String) The name of the buildx builder to use. If BUILDX_BUILDER environment variable is set, it will be used. If left empty, the provider tries to resolve to the default builder - which might not always work. If you are in Windows, the legacy builder is used.
- `cache_from` (List of String) External cache sources (e.g., `user/app:cache`, `type=local,src=path/to/dir`). Only supported when using a buildx builder.
- `cache_to` (List of String) Cache export destinations (e.g., `user/app:cache`, `type=local,dest=path/to/dir`). Only supported when using a buildx builder.
- `cgroup_parent` (String) Optional parent cgroup for the container
- `cpu_period` (Number) The length of a CPU period in microseconds
- `cpu_quota` (Number) Microseconds of CPU time that the container can get in a CPU period
- `cpu_set_cpus` (String) CPUs in which to allow execution (e.g., `0-3`, `0`, `1`)
- `cpu_set_mems` (String) MEMs in which to allow execution (`0-3`, `0`, `1`)
- `cpu_shares` (Number) CPU shares (relative weight)
- `dockerfile` (String) Name of the Dockerfile. Defaults to `Dockerfile`.
- `extra_hosts` (List of String) A list of hostnames/IP mappings to add to the container’s /etc/hosts file. Specified in the form ["hostname:IP"]
- `force_remove` (Boolean) Always remove intermediate containers
- `isolation` (String) Isolation represents the isolation technology of a container. The supported values are
- `label` (Map of String) Set metadata for an image
- `labels` (Map of String) User-defined key/value metadata
- `memory` (Number) Set memory limit for build
- `memory_swap` (Number) Total memory (memory + swap), -1 to enable unlimited swap
- `network_mode` (String) Set the networking mode for the RUN instructions during build
- `no_cache` (Boolean) Do not use the cache when building the image
- `platform` (String) Set the target platform for the build. Defaults to `GOOS/GOARCH`. For more information see the [docker documentation](https://github.com/docker/buildx/blob/master/docs/reference/buildx.md#-set-the-target-platforms-for-the-build---platform)
- `pull_parent` (Boolean) Attempt to pull the image even if an older image exists locally
- `remote_context` (String) A Git repository URI or HTTP/HTTPS context URI. Will be ignored if `builder` is set.
- `remove` (Boolean) Remove intermediate containers after a successful build. Defaults to `true`.
- `secrets` (Block List) Set build-time secrets. Only available when you use a buildx builder. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--build--secrets))
- `security_opt` (List of String) The security options
- `session_id` (String) Set an ID for the build session
- `shm_size` (Number) Size of /dev/shm in bytes. The size must be greater than 0
- `squash` (Boolean) If true the new layers are squashed into a new image with a single new layer
- `suppress_output` (Boolean) Suppress the build output and print image ID on success
- `tag` (List of String) Name and optionally a tag in the 'name:tag' format
- `target` (String) Set the target build stage to build
- `ulimit` (Block List) Configuration for ulimits (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--build--ulimit))
- `use_legacy_builder` (Boolean) Force using the legacy Docker builder for image builds, even if buildx/buildkit would be available.
- `version` (String) Version of the underlying builder to use

<a id="nestedblock--build--auth_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `build.auth_config`

Required:

- `host_name` (String) hostname of the registry

Optional:

- `auth` (String) the auth token
- `email` (String) the user emal
- `identity_token` (String) the identity token
- `password` (String) the registry password
- `registry_token` (String) the registry token
- `server_address` (String) the server address
- `user_name` (String) the registry user name


<a id="nestedblock--build--secrets"></a>
### Nested Schema for `build.secrets`

Required:

- `id` (String) ID of the secret. By default, secrets are mounted to /run/secrets/<id>

Optional:

- `env` (String) Environment variable source of the secret
- `src` (String) File source of the secret. Takes precedence over `env`


<a id="nestedblock--build--ulimit"></a>
### Nested Schema for `build.ulimit`

Required:

- `hard` (Number) soft limit
- `name` (String) type of ulimit, e.g. `nofile`
- `soft` (Number) hard limit



<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `delete` (String)
- `update` (String)